Philosopher Bruno Paradis.
Like Paradis.
Paradis.
D-I-S, probably.
D-I-S, yes.
And the first name?
Bruno.
B-R-U-N-O.
Another was a historian translator called Lefebvre.
Yeah, I can do that one.
And the first name, right?
It's not Henri, it's novel.
That's a question like this.
That's good.
Well, I will describe some... This is a text written by two colleagues, Girard Grinder and Adam Giffard.
There are no more in the staff.
One is when he starts...
He left for an Alexandrian project.
Yes.
In Alexandrian?
Yeah, yeah.
And he was in charge of the image project.
Audiovisual and image project.
Very clever man.
And Alain Giffard was head of computer new technology project.
This is the man who defines all the computer network inside the system, information system.
We are trying to realize now.
And you can have...
on Internet, for instance, he is working on in the Institute, the Manuscrits de l'édition contemporaine, IMEK, IMEK, which is IMEK.
I-M-E-C, Institut des Manuscrits de l'édition contemporaine, which is a little French institute, very interesting, because they work with publishers and authors to preserve contemporary collections from authors or from publishers.
all manuscripts, for instance.
And he's working with them now?
Yes, he's working in IMEC, and he learned a lot, he learned me a lot about hypertext, new technologies, very... So they wrote, it was in 1992 or 1993, this work about the French Bibliothèque Nationale,
And it's in English too?
Yes, it was in the University of California.
Oh, wonderful.
Excellent.
This is the official program of digitization.
We wrote it with my director, Marcel Bodicaise.
And we wrote this text, officially text, official text together.
Well, we had an exhibition, sorry it's in French, we had an exhibition last year called Tous les savoirs du monde, about encyclopédie.
the history of encyclopedism, and in the catalogue I wrote a text with a colleague from IRIT, Institute of Research in Computing Technology, and I wrote a text about knowledge organization and classification in the digital world.
This is very important material.
This abstract is in English.
It was done from Oxford University.
Well, it was the first presentation I had done in 1993, or it was published in 1995, about the links between, let's say, a philosophical approach on these digital projects, what it could mean, and I tried to do it with
by regards of Michel Foucault's writing, because I think it's very near to this approach of document extent, l'ordre du discours.
This is about reading environment.
This is about...
The Geoffrey Nunberg books, and I wrote a little article about what the text is in English.
I didn't interview with him.
I talked with him.
Okay.
And this is on the, let's say, technical point of view.
It's from a colleague.
In what format or what definition we have put them.
how we organize the production, the control, quality, perhaps it could be interesting.
This is from a review about what he's doing in France.
It's from a colleague.
Another text is in English.
Sorry.
This is about a virtual library, what we talked about before.
Well, writing is a problem of relation with memory.
Writing is a memory concern.
And from Ars Memoria to the Nadu, a Ted Nelson project, we have some things who look slight.
about reading Nouvelle Pratique de Lecture, and Jean-Nidier Wagner is working the next office.
Well, this is a text in English.
It's a review from Michel Melot, who was formerly at the head of the Conseil Supérieur de Bibliothèque in France, and we have done with him
he had done with us a review of what is worth
in France, what is done in France in digital field, in digital library field.
So you will have some information about the Neuer project, PLAO, space de lecture.
You will have in short review.
Well, I've done another article in a library professional about web and bibliothèque numerique.
It will present you this idea of, I told you very simply, of inside a computer, a workstation, you have to have access to different remote libraries,
have your own personal connection, virtually, and your own possibility to... That's what we're talking about.
This is a rather critical article from... Well, it was a student who was in stage there, who was from Canada, and... Well, she was rather...
critical, but well, why not?
You have already this one.
This one is about one project about a French periodical who was born in 90, at the beginning of the century, La Revue de Synthèse, Henri Baire, and it was not called in the books
in a book, and it was about this project of what we are doing.
Oh, you have a summary in English.
Oh, good.
In German.
Because we want to use this periodical in text version as a database so that we could help the reader to explore
new information about science, about human science.
And this one is about Walter Benjamin's approach, transposed in digital.
well uh you will find uh several times the same thing sorry how does this word translate numeris you may say digitize it's digitized numeric for us it's digital digital digital library okay do you have an email address yes sorry
Yes, Yannick Menin, BNF.
Okay.
Excellent.
Do you mind if I email?
No, of course.
No, no.
It's very, very kind if you can give me news of what you are doing.
Yes, and I think I'd like to go over what I use so we can make sure it's accurate.
You know, when I quote you, maybe I can send you some email or we can even talk on the telephone and
There's no secret.
No, but I want to make sure I have it right, is what I'm saying.
Okay, that's very kind.
Accuracy is very important to me.
Yes, very kind to me.
And I think that where there is a language difference, it makes sense that we get it right.
It matters to me to get it right.
That's what is free to me, yes.
Who's?
In Cornel and Mr. Lynch.
Ann Kenney is the woman I worked with.
She's in charge of the whole digital process.
And then there's John Dean who works in preservation.
There are a lot of digitization.
But Anne Kenny, K-E-N-N-E-Y is the one.
I'll send it to you by email.
Yeah, okay, thank you very much.
And her phone number, if you'd like.
Well, I'm very interested by what they are doing because they are very specialized in some topics, in some issues.
Do you know the magazine D-L-I-D?
Yes, yes.
She did an article October...
This past October, October 96.
Okay.
It's a terrific article, and it's all about what they're doing at Cornell.
You should look it up, October 97, D-L-I-B, and I'll send you the address to get to that.
Okay, but I will come back to October.
October, because she told me to look at it, and it's really, and she wrote it with another man, October of 97.
Perfect.
96, I'm sorry, October of 96.
Yes, of course, 96.
And I will come back to this.
Yes, excellent.
Excellent.
Merci beaucoup.
In American language, library has a very large extent, largest extent than for us.
Everything is a kind of library, no?
Here, a library is a bookstore.
Yes.
You know, that's different.
At home, a library is this.
A library is a university.
A library is a little town.
A library is in my home.
We have a library.
We have a very focused... Here it's biblioteque.
Biblioteque equals library in our country.
And it has a more traditional approach for us.
Yes.
Thank you.
That's all right.
You're welcome.